CASMINST-5216 - Ensure backup of pit data gets uploaded to S3 (#2275)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: install/deploy_final_non-compute_node.md

    The following commands create a `tar` archive of these files, storing it in a directory that will be backed up in the next step.

    ```bash

>     PITBackupDateTime=$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S); mkdir -pv "${PITDATA}"/prep/logs &&

Reviewer: Since you don't really need this tar file to have its name be the same as the other one, it is probably better not to set this variable here. The further the distance between when a variable is set and when it is used, the greater the risk that the installer takes a break and ends up using a new shell.

Given that, I'd suggest just using the date command directly for this part, and setting the variable later, when it is needed.

```suggestion
    mkdir -pv "${PITDATA}"/prep/logs &&
```

            /var/log/conman \
            /var/log/zypper.log 2>/dev/null |
         sed 's_^/__' |

>          xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"

Reviewer: ````suggestion
         xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}"/prep/logs/pit-backup-$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S).tgz
````

    ```

1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before rebooting it.

    > **`NOTE`** This preserves information that should always be kept together. This data can be critical for debug and support as well as in order to fresh-install the system again.

    1. Log in and set up passwordless SSH **to** the PIT node.

        Copying **only** the public keys from `ncn-m002` to the PIT node. **Do not** set up
        passwordless SSH **from** the PIT node or the key will have to be securely tracked or expunged if using a USB installation).

>         > The `ssh` commands below may prompt for the NCN root password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        > The `ssh` command below may prompt for the NCN root password.
```

            /var/log/conman \
            /var/log/zypper.log 2>/dev/null |
         sed 's_^/__' |
         xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz"
    ```

> 1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before reboot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before rebooting it.
```

    > **`NOTE`** This preserves information that should always be kept together. This data can be critical for debug and support as well as in order to fresh-install the system again.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: These comments still apply:
https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/pull/2275#discussion_r956192571

Author: Yes, thank you.

>     tar -cvzf /PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz ${PITDATA}/prep ${PITDATA}/configs

Reviewer: Most likely these won't be very big files, but is this meant to be written to the root filesystem? I think in the case of remote ISO PIT nodes, the root FS isn't always particularly large. It may be better to create this in pitdata, and then clean it up after it is uploaded.

Reviewer: I know we are about to reboot, so space doesn't matter from that perspective. My main concern is the off chance that there isn't enough free space in / to create the file. I think it's more likely that pitdata will have sufficient space

Author: Fair point. I have moved the location of the new tarball used for the backup to /var/www/ephemeral itself, instead of root. FWIW Testing in starlord showed the tarball to be only 35MB

starlord-ncn-m001-pit:/var/www/ephemeral # du -h /var/www/ephemeral/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-2022-08-26_18-07-43.tgz
35M	/var/www/ephemeral/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-2022-08-26_18-07-43.tgz

>     tar -cvzf /PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz ${PITDATA}/prep ${PITDATA}/configs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tar -cvzf "/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz" "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs"
```

>     tar -cvzf "/var/www/ephemeral/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz" "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs"

Reviewer: I suggest using PITDATA, in case the mount point changes from ephemeral in the future.
```suggestion
    tar -cvzf "${PITDATA}/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz" "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs"
```

Author: I have made the change to use $(PITDATA} here as well as included the and true logic to chain the object put only if the tar succeeds with a 0 exit code.

    cray artifacts create config-data \

>         PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz" \
```

>         /PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
```

>         "/var/www/ephemeral/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "${PITDATA}/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
```

>     ```

Reviewer: Should free up the space after uploading it to ARS, since all of the data in that tarball is already contained elsewhere in PITDATA and will not be lost on reboot.

```suggestion
    rm -v "${PITDATA}/PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
    ```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    Ensure that the previous command chain output ends with `COMPLETED`, indicating that the procedure was successful.

```

            /var/log/conman \
            /var/log/zypper.log 2>/dev/null |
         sed 's_^/__' |

>          xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
```

Author: This change was made, marking as resolved.

Reviewer: This change is not showing up as being made when I refresh the PR. Marking unresolved.

    ```

1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before reboot.

    > **`NOTE`** This preserves information that should always be kept together. This data can be critical for debug and support as well as in order to fresh-install the system again.

   ```bash

>    PITBackupDateTime=$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S); cray artifacts create config-data pit-logs-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz ${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz

Reviewer: It doesn't seem like you'd want to set this variable again here, or it will not match the value from earlier, and therefore the file will not exist.

Author: Correct, there were a few changes required I found Friday iI didn't get to update. This was one of them. Correcting that.

Reviewer: Okay -- if you're still working on it and don't want it reviewed yet, you can keep it in draft mode. I think most of us only look at the ones that are marked as ready for review. Just to avoid you getting review comments on stuff you're already aware of

   ```

1. Tar and backup the full contents of prep and configs tarball to the config-data bucket as well.

    ```bash

>     tar -cvzf /PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz ${PITDATA}/prep ${PITDATA}/configs; cray artifacts create config-data PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz /PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TARFILE="PitPrepAndConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
    tar -cvzf "/${TARFILE}" "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs"
    cray artifacts create config-data "${TARFILE}" "/${TARFILE}"
```

Author: Integrated this change.

            /var/log/conman \
            /var/log/zypper.log 2>/dev/null |
         sed 's_^/__' |
         xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz"
    ```

1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before reboot.

    > **`NOTE`** This preserves information that should always be kept together. This data can be critical for debug and support as well as in order to fresh-install the system again.

   ```bash
   PITBackupDateTime=$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S); cray artifacts create config-data pit-logs-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz ${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-$PITBackupDateTime.tgz
   ```

> 1. Tar and backup the full contents of prep and configs tarball to the config-data bucket as well.

Reviewer: If this command is uploading the entire contents of `prep`, then why did we upload that one file from a subdirectory of `prep` in the previous step?

Author: Thats a valid point and thought of it as well. The previously written docs told the user to upload just the logs, where as I think it will be better if we had all of prep, configs and logs directories. I just didn't simply and integrate the previous steps. In actuality I just want to put this whole thing into a simple script and tell someone to run the script, but that will likely come later.

Author: Removed the direct upload of the logs tar ball,  and just left the upload for the whole configs and prep directory

            /var/log/conman \
            /var/log/zypper.log 2>/dev/null |
         sed 's_^/__' |
         xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
    ```

1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before rebooting it.

    > **`NOTE`** This preserves information that should always be kept together. This data can be critical for debug and support as well as in order to fresh-install the system again.

    1. Log in and set up passwordless SSH **to** the PIT node.

        Copying **only** the public keys from `ncn-m002` to the PIT node. **Do not** set up
        passwordless SSH **from** the PIT node or the key will have to be securely tracked or expunged if using a USB installation).

        > The `ssh` commands below may prompt for the NCN root password.

        ```bash
        ssh ncn-m002 cat /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub >> /root/.ssh/authorized_keys &&
             chmod 600 /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
        ```

>     1. Copy the prep directory to `ncn-m002` with rsync. This is required to ensure the site lan and other critical config data can be copied back to ncn-m001 after the PIT reboot.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Use `prep/` instead of "prep"

>     1. Copy the prep directory to `ncn-m002` with rsync. This is required to ensure the site lan and other critical config data can be copied back to ncn-m001 after the PIT reboot.

Reviewer 2: In the context of the diff I can't see why, but why does this step still exist? For the site link setup?

Maybe we can change the order to have them download the S3 backup to fetch the site link?

Otherwise this is fine if we need it.

Reviewer 2: Technically this step will go away when the site link info is in cloudinit, and folks don't need to manually copy the pits site link info into place anymore.

Author: Correct. There are actually two steps that found had to restore this step. One is the site link config file and the restore of the /metal/bootstrap to m001 happens before and there are files mounted again then to use CSI before S3 access is restored. It may be possible we could configure the cray administrative access cli step before the site link is up but that seems like a significant change.

            /var/log/conman \
            /var/log/zypper.log 2>/dev/null |
         sed 's_^/__' |
         xargs tar -C / -czvf "${PITDATA}/prep/logs/pit-backup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz"
    ```

1. (`pit#`) Backup the bootstrap information from `ncn-m001` before rebooting it.

    > **`NOTE`** This preserves information that should always be kept together. This data can be critical for debug and support as well as in order to fresh-install the system again.

    1. Log in and set up passwordless SSH **to** the PIT node.

        Copying **only** the public keys from `ncn-m002` to the PIT node. **Do not** set up
        passwordless SSH **from** the PIT node or the key will have to be securely tracked or expunged if using a USB installation).

        > The `ssh` commands below may prompt for the NCN root password.

        ```bash
        ssh ncn-m002 cat /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub >> /root/.ssh/authorized_keys &&
             chmod 600 /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
        ```

>     1. Copy the prep/ directory and installation media ISO  to `ncn-m002` with rsync. This is required to ensure the site LAN and other critical config data can be copied back to ncn-m001 after the PIT reboot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Copy some of the installation files to `ncn-m002`.
    
        These files will be copied back to `ncn-m001` after the PIT node is rebooted.
```

        ```bash
        ssh ncn-m002 \

>             "mkdir -pv /metal/bootstrap"

Reviewer: Did you test this command? Isn't adding these double quotes at the end of this line going to result in only the mkdir command being run over ssh, with the rsync commands being run locally? And it looks like it would also result in a syntax error because of the extra double quotes at the end of these lines. Or am I misreading this?

            rsync -e 'ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -o UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null' -rltD -P --delete pit.nmn:'${PITDATA}'/prep /metal/bootstrap/
            rsync -e 'ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -o UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null' -rltD -P --delete pit.nmn:'${CSM_PATH}'/cray-pre-install-toolkit*.iso /metal/bootstrap/"
        ```

>     1. Copy the prep, configs and install media to our local S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Upload install files to S3 in the cluster.
```

Author: Made this change in latest version of branch.

       ```bash

>        tar -cvzf "${PITDATA}/PitPrepIsoConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz" "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs" $(find / -name cray-pre-install-toolkit-*.iso) &&

Reviewer: Do we really want the find command searching the entire pit node, starting from the root directory? Also, why use a find command here for the PIT ISO file instead of reusing the same path as the rsync command uses? Or if there is a reason that its path is bad, why not change both to use find? Having it done different ways seems not ideal to me, on the (hopefully) off chance that they gave different results.

Author: Tar does not honor and process the * wildcard in the file path correctly, thus I used a find for it which is. However i have changed the path to be limited to /var/www/ephemeral.

Reviewer: It's not tar or rsync -- that's a Bash thing. You can use Bash wildcarding to select files to include in a tar archive just as you would with any other command in the Bash shell.

            rsync -e 'ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -o UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null' -rltD -P --delete pit.nmn:'${CSM_PATH}'/cray-pre-install-toolkit*.iso /metal/bootstrap/"
        ```

    1. Upload install files to S3 in the cluster.

       ```bash

>        tar -czf "${PITDATA}/PitPrepIsoConfigsBackup-${PITBackupDateTime}.tgz" "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs" "${CSM_PATH}/cray-pre-install-toolkit"*.iso &&

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       PITBackupDateTime=$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S)
       tar -czf "${PITDATA}"/PitPrepIsoConfigsBackup-"${PITBackupDateTime}".tgz \
           "${PITDATA}/prep" "${PITDATA}/configs" "${CSM_PATH}/cray-pre-install-toolkit"*.iso &&
```

    See [Check for Latest Documentation](../update_product_stream/README.md#check-for-latest-documentation).

> 1. (`ncn-m002#`) Exit the typescript and move the backup to `ncn-m001`.

Reviewer: This command sequence starts out on `ncn-m001`. The first exit command sends you back to `ncn-m002`, and the second exit command stops the typescript. If you're concerned that this is unclear, you could break this into substeps, so that only the first substep has the `ncn-m001#` tag, and the subsequent ones have `ncn-m002#`.

```suggestion
1. (`ncn-m001#`) Exit the typescript and move the backup to `ncn-m001`.
```

    exit
    exit
    # typescript exited

>     rsync -rltDv -P /metal/bootstrap ncn-m002:/metal/ && rm -rfv /metal/bootstrap

Reviewer: This rsync command is being run on ncn-m002. This change confuses me. It doesn't look like you included this portion of the procedure in your testing. How were you intending this change to work?

Author: The original commands in the rsync in the doc as written was being executed/run from ncn-m001, but it was pointing to m001 in a circular reference. If its run from m001 it needs to copy to ncn-m002.

Reviewer: The original commands in the doc have you run exit first, which logs you out of ncn-m001 and back to ncn-m002. The second exit exits the typescript. Then the rsync is run.

This was discussed in an earlier comment I made that you implemented: https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/pull/2275#discussion_r957474134
